It smells like mothballs. Faintly, though enough to give you a headache if you breathed it in long enough.
Our house was infested with them before. Moths, I mean.
Hiding in our cabinets, in between our food packaging, flittering under the light panels, nesting in my gloves.
I refused to use them after that.
And I guess the fear of my fingers freezing off finally kicked Má and Ba into action.
They brought mothballs home the next day and we sprinkled them all around the house. I guess some of those landed in my closet.
...
What is this?
Jeez, that scared the hell out of me.
Actually... It is bit dark in here.
I could’ve sworn I stashed a flashlight somewhere. Back when I used to read comics at night.
Boxes and loose items of clothes litter the closet floor.
I’d never cared to rearrange everything after Má stopped her weekly moth inspections. But cramped in here now, I’m starting to wish I had.
I sweep my arm around the floor, feeling around for the flashlight.
From what I remember, it should’ve been right... Here! Aha!
Oh, god. Too bright.
This was actually a hand-me-down from Má. She used to sell ones just like it in the little shop her family owned.
They didn’t have the means for education after immigrating here during the war. Má says she was lucky she got to go to college.
And that meant Jimmy and I should quit complaining.
I wonder what's left in here. I could've sworn I left a—
Tossing the jacket aside, I tug my knees closer to my chest.
It's been ten minutes since I've started hiding out here and I'm surprised no one has barged in.
This may be my room, but my family's always seemed to think they had the right.
But right now, the house is surprisingly quiet. Almost eerie, even.
Only the sound of my breath and the ticking of the clock in the bedroom tell me I haven’t frozen in place.
I lean my head back until the wall catches it, stabilizing me as I stare up at the ceiling.
Something about the darkness of the room hanging over my shoulders calms me.
No distractions here.
Nothing to see, nothing to do.
And when every moment’s rest since the beginning of your life has been policed by your parents? Well... You learn to appreciate your hiding places.
As strange as a closet may be.
A few minutes pass and still, no one has entered. I’m relieved, but… just the slightest bit disappointed.
Footsteps, then the closing of a door. Footsteps, then the sound of a sink. Footsteps, then the sound of Paris By Night.
Just a typical Thursday evening with the Quach family.
Except it's not.
Ugh.
A moment passes and nothing changes. No one moves toward my room. The door doesn’t open.
Why don’t they care--
No, I wasn’t expecting anything anyway. I’m just here to calm down.
Let’s see what other things I’ve left around here. That’ll calm me down.
Rummaging through the boxes-- as much as I can with a flashlight anyway-- I find one box in particular that catches my eye.
These were my rollerskates from fifth grade. I remember...
Back when Toys R Us was still a thing, Ba and I had gone over to purchase a pair.
It was Teresa's birthday in fifth grade and she was having a party at the local skating rink. Somehow I’d managed to nab an invitation. But I needed skates.
I’d never ridden before that party. And judging from the state of these skates, you can probably tell I never did again.
I’d always liked pink when I was younger. And telling your parents you liked anything was an invitation to be bombarded with gifts of that type.
So naturally, Ba picked pink skates. And when I say pink, I mean it was completely covered in different shades of hot pink. A literal mess.
Thankfully, I had a shred of common sense then and switched it for these. Probably saved my social standing then.
Until I fell flat on my ass.
Kelsey had been a friend. She visited a lot during our drama class, and being the nosy kid she is, she found her way into my closet.
My skates had been hiding there, just as they are today. Immediately, Kelsey took a liking to them, slipping her foot in and tumbling to the floor within seconds.
She’d looked at me defensively for a second, almost as though she were considering denying it’d happened at all.
But we’d both seen her.
And soon, she laughed. Her signature loud and hearty laugh.
And I laughed with her.
I wondered how someone could radiate such infectious happiness. I hoped she could teach me.
Putting the skates on the floor, I tug the box beneath them closer to me.
If I’m remembering correctly, this is The Box. You know, the most important one.
I open the flaps up, tugging one side up before the other, and soon the contents are revealed to me. It’s a mess. Much like everything else.
The first thing that gets me is the smell. A strong and sinus-clearing odor. It almost hurts from breathing it this close.
I quickly dig through the items with my free hand, looking for the item.
I already know where it’s coming from. I spent my whole childhood smelling this. Up until the other kids started commenting anyway.
Oh no. I guess I didn’t close it all the way. It must have dripped in the box from the last time I used this.
The smell lingers in the air now and I wince at its strength.
I remember...
Whenever Ba thought he was starting to get sick, he’d rub this under his nose. Even if this was meant for joint paint, he was sure this would cure any problem.
Má always laughed at him as his eyes began to water. The strength of the odor would quickly rise to your eyes and burn. Similar to those fast-acting eye drops.
I’ve always liked the smell of dầu xanh and I was keen to copy my dad, so at some point, I started asking him to wipe some under my nose too.
And there was instant regret.
But something about having that smell on me felt like a warm hug. It reminded me of my parents whenever I was in pain or or feeling lonely.
I’d ended up rubbing it on my collarbones before school. A good luck charm of sorts.
But the smell is strong and it lingers, and soon I got weird looks from all my classmates.
And I specifically remember Joseph B. shouting at my third grade teacher that I made his nose hurt.
I never wore it outside again. Rarely wore it at home.
I think the last time I opened this was two months ago when I’d gotten a nasty bug bite. And, as Ba claimed, it worked like a charm.
Kelsey is also Vietnamese. So she was raised similar to how I was: Paris by Night, eating thịt kho for days, and never eating phở at a phở restaurant.
So Kelsey was fairly at home in my home. And though my parents thought she was rambunctious, they liked her enough and treated her like their own kid.
I’d been complaining about my monologue for our drama class, about how I’d gone over the time limit and how unconvincing it was.
And during that time, Kelsey found this bottle on my nightstand and offered it to me, claiming it’d fix all my problems.
Hurt? she’d said. Sứt dầu!
Failed a test?  Sứt dầu!
Not a doctor yet? Sứt dầu!
That was when I told her how I used it more for comfort than pain. (Although rubbing it under my nose often brought about its own pain.)
And how Ba used to rub it under his nose, though he’d stopped a while ago.
Kelsey quirked an eyebrow at me as if to say, That’s new. And before I knew it, she was smearing it under her nose.
I didn’t have time to stop her before there were tears brimming at the edges of her eyes.
Then in one fluid motion, she’d swiped it beneath mine.
We fell back on my bed, laughing in the midst of our tears. Though there were mostly tears.
The stinging was unbearable, but the memories quickly flooded back in.
And as I looked at Kelsey and watched her laugh through the pain, I realized I wanted to be like that too.
Screw the monologue, I’d said. I’ll find another way to make it up.
She'd smiled at me encouragingly, wiping away a tear that’d fallen from the corner of my eye.
And in that moment, I stopped thinking.
I kissed her.
And suddenly, I didn’t know whether I wanted to laugh or cry.
I stare at the bottle in my hand a little longer. Just having it in my hand now makes me feel a little bit stronger. A little less lonely.
But I tuck it safely back in the corner of the box after tightening the cap. As comforting as the smell was, it’d be a disaster if it spilled everywhere.
Except it’s too late, I realize.
I pick up the dầu-soaked sweatband between my index and thumb fingers, wincing at the overwhelming smell.
This wasn’t even mine. How’d it end up in here?
This belongs to…
Jimmy, my gym rat brother.
It’s complicated now. We tend not to talk most days, working around each other instead of actually interacting.
And it’s weird because we used to be close. Until he grew up and decided his friends were more important than our family.
These days, he’s barely even home. And I never really talk to him.
When we were younger, he stuck to me like glue. We’re only two years apart, so we shared most things.
And with that comes the comparing.
Why can’t you play the piano like Chị? Why can’t you play sports like Em? Why can’t you study like Chị? Why can’t you lose weight like Em?
I guess we started to resent each other. Just as we did our parents.
So I guess the whole family kind of doesn’t talk. Other than the occasional lecture here and there.
I just wished he’d have been by my side. After all, wouldn’t we understand each other best?
Kelsey used to be on the track team in high school. She said she joined to “differentiate” herself from the other students for college.
Only to realize that all the other Asian students tried to do the same.
But she was good at it, so she stayed. And joined again once she got to college.
In the days after the dầu xanh incident, I found myself running away from Kelsey. Literally.
In addition to our drama class, we had a track and field class together. Kelsey needed an extra two credits, and I…
I wanted to get my parents off my back about my weight.
Normally, we took our time doing the laps. Kelsey could easily go faster but she decided to match my pace.
But I didn’t want to talk to her. Or even see her for that matter.
And that was unfair, I know. I just… Didn’t know what to do.
Kelsey easily caught me. Though I suspect she'd let me go several preliminary laps to give me space.
She didn’t say much. She just put her sweatband in my hand before jogging ahead.
I didn't put it on right away. But after a few minutes of running with it in my hand, I got tired of holding it.
It was weird. And not just because of the fact that I was wearing someone else's sweatband.
But once I'd put it on, it felt like support. Like she was still running with me, even if she wasn’t beside me.
I place the sweatband on the floor outside of the box. I should throw it into the wash once I leave.
But the next thing that catches my eye is something I’d begged for for years.
The screen turns white and the words, “GAME BOY”, appear on the screen with a font that reminds me of Microsoft's WordArt and a transition reminiscent of iMovie.
I love it.
But I’m surprised it still has juice. Given how long it’s sat in this closet, you would think all its power has been drained.
What game did I leave in here?
The inserted game loads up and it’s the first game Má and Ba got me: Kirby and the Magic Mirror.
Kirby was pink so naturally they thought I’d love him.
...
I did. And I also watched his show religiously.
Jimmy and I would wake up early Saturday mornings to watch cartoons.
And while we may not talk too much anymore, this is one thing we still remember fondly: Kirby: Right Back at Ya!
Our schedule had always been the same. Sonic, then Kirby, then Yugi-Oh! We watched all three, even if Kirby was the only one we were actually interested in.
It was like clockwork. And you didn’t mess with something that was already good.
Naturally, my love for Kirby extended to this game. Until I realized I was terrible at it. (And all other platformers.)
Regret sunk deep as I realized this was the only game I had to play on the GameBoy, and I wouldn’t have use for it otherwise.
I was anticipating a lecture when Jimmy snuck into my room, asking to borrow the game. And it turned out he was far better at it than I ever would be.
Without realizing it, he'd somehow saved the day. Má and Ba praised me for sharing, and my GameBoy was going to use.
I still don’t know how that game ends, but as soon as I got other games, I stole my console back and put my own hours in.
Just… no more platformers.
The inserted game loads up and it’s one of the first games I’d picked myself: Harvest Moon: More Friends of Mineral Town.
Harvest Moon was one of my favorite games. There was something calming about being able to live a virtual life that wasn’t anything close to the one you lead.
And I just loved corn. So… I wanted to be a farmer at some point in my life.
Kelsey had gotten me into playing a few games. One of which was a farming simulator similar to Harvest Moon.
But with Harvest Moon, I’m fairly methodical.
Daily medicinal herbs for Alex. Plant this plant on this day of this season. Prepare for this event on this day of this year.
So, naturally, I took that mentality into this game.
I quickly overtook Kelsey in hours, skill sets, and money in just a couple of weeks. And she looked at me with complete bewilderment.
It’s just a game, she'd said. Just relax. You don’t need to micromanage every part of it.
But I wanted to. Or rather, I felt I needed to.
I wasn’t good at sports. I wasn’t that great at art. And once college started, I quickly realized I wasn’t much good academically either.
But this was something that made sense.
I just wanted to be good at something. To finally have control of something again.
As the title appears, I shut off the game. I wasn’t sure where it’d left off last anyway.
I fold the console in half and set it neatly beside the dầu xanh before moving on to the next item.
I don’t know how this ended up in here. I thought I’d lost it.
I ended up buying a new one after searching for a week, but this one was for...
I caught onto the trend of eyeliner in middle school.
While I was afraid of looking like a raccoon, I was more afraid of the attention that trying out eyeliner would bring me.
And not from my peers-- as vicious as middle schoolers can be--  I just knew the second my parents noticed, they’d comment.
And they did, along with my neverending wealth of relatives.
Điệu quá! Con gái điệu!
And despite the playful teasing nature, it always made me feel bad. There was a negative quality to it. As if caring about my appearance was something worth teasing.
Jimmy had always gotten comments like, đẹp trai.
But having "pretty boy" cooed at you as your aunts pinch your cheeks isn’t the same as having them slap your ass and call you vain.
As if being a woman meant being subject to objectification.
:')
After dancing around the elephant in the room a good month, Kelsey and I found what I thought to be a new normal. One that didn’t involve talking about our kiss.
But after a week, we found ourselves in the library. And soon, Kelsey had shoved all our books aside on the table and stared at me, expectantly.
Let me take you out, she'd said.
Please, I'd replied. Just end me before this final.
I’d known what she’d meant. We both knew what we had to talk about. But we both knew what was on the line. And this was easier.
A date, she'd emphasized. She'd seemed almost exasperated, though I didn't blame her. You and me. Romantically.
I didn’t have time to react before she was standing and grabbing her things.
If I pass my linear algebra test tomorrow, I’m taking you out.
And with that, she shot her fingerguns at me and headed out the door.
I figure she must have had that on her mind for a long time because she passed that test with flying colors despite her general grade range of 75.
And before I knew it, I was buying myself some eyeliner and drawing the best wing I’d drawn in years.
But only on one eye.
The other didn't come so easy.
I slip the eyeliner back into the box, right beside the other items. But the next item that catches my eye…
Well, I wish I hadn’t seen it.
Kelsey and I started seeing each other. Romantically.
We kind of just… fell into it. We’d already been seeing so much of each other on the regular that this didn’t feel like a huge change.
It felt right.
I think we both knew there’d been something there. We just didn’t know how to do anything about it.
So naturally, spending time with one another was something our parents were already used to.
In their eyes, we were friends. No more, no less.
But I remember counting footsteps and waiting for them to fade into the distance before I kissed her.
I remember holding her hand, then tossing it aside as my door slammed open with a question about dinner.
Kelsey always looked at me with a stupid grin, ready to break out into a laugh.
But she always held it in long enough for the door to close again before she let her unruly guffaw escape.
But somehow, simply seeing her laugh always made me laugh too.
It’d start with a playful roll of my eyes, then a growing smile that soon became a full grin as I shook my head.
And the more I resisted it, the more she’d laugh until I erupted into laughter of my own.
With how often Kelsey was around, even Jimmy had grown familiar with her.
And being as persistent as Kelsey is, she’d managed to hold a full conversation with him each time she came over.
Some nights, she’d stay over.
I figure our parents must’ve thought it strange at first, but they’d gotten to know us so well that it didn’t really matter.
I think those nights were the safest moments we had.
Moments where I could properly hold her hand without worrying about my door bursting open.
And moments where I could kiss her without counting footsteps because everyone had gone to bed.
And each time I kissed her, I would swear to myself that this was worth it.
And each time, I’d promise myself that one day we wouldn’t need to sneak around anymore.
And though the sneaking around was the worst in our homes, it didn’t get much better outside of them.
I was afraid to hold her hand. I’d stuff our hands into my jacket’s pockets and hide them between us.
I was afraid of anyone noticing because I was afraid of what they’d say.
Double the catcalling? Double the exotification? Double the odd looks?
But truth be told, we got more comments about looking like sisters than we did about anything else any time someone commented.
I’d hide behind those assumptions. Play the role they’d assumed.
But each time I stayed quiet, I knew Kelsey was hurting inside. No matter how much she said she understood.
I knew I was being selfish each time I held my mouth. Kelsey would look away, lips pursed with barely a smile on her face.
The rest of those nights were quiet. Right up until we got home and laid in our own beds.
That was when my thoughts came to life and guilt spread through my chest.
I was sorry. I was always sorry.
I wanted to love her proudly.
I wanted to just love her.
But I couldn't. And she deserved better.
I set the photo aside away from the rest. I don’t want the dầu xanh to spill and ruin the picture.
But the next thing I pull out is quite an oddity. And I realize now that I clearly have no sense of organization.
What is this doing here?
This reminds me of...
We still have a landline for whatever reason.
And being as I’ve yet to find a job post-college and I speak considerably better Vietnamese than Jimmy, I pick up the calls for the family.
Most notably Má.
Má holds hour long conversations with family members. On the regular.
So back when we’d had dial-up, the situation was far from ideal.
But I’ve never properly learnt Vietnamese. While I’m able to speak it (enough to save my life, at least), I can’t read or write it-- aside from the names of food.
I would write notes for her from relatives on the closest sheet of paper we had. This tended to be napkins or leftover post-it sheets.
But I remember the day Bà Ngoại passed. And I didn’t really know how to write that down. Let alone how to spell Ngoại.
Má doesn’t cry often. I don’t think I could recall any time prior.
I used to think she just didn’t cry.
But after I broke the news to her that night, I realized it was more of a coping mechanism than anything else.
The tears took a full year to stop.
We were paired as partners at the beginning of drama class. And as an ice breaker, Kelsey promised me a magic trick.
All it involved was a napkin and a pen.
I spent a majority of the time trying to piece together what the magic trick could possibly be, rather than actually seeing it.
And by the end of the class, I hadn’t gotten to see it.
Kelsey thought this was funny though and decided to hold out on ever showing me the trick.
She was waiting for me to figure it out, she’d said. And after a good month, I still hadn’t.
She was ready to given in then, to just show me the trick.
But I’d grown too attached to the idea of figuring it out, of proving myself to her, that I rejected the offer.
But I still haven’t.
And looking at this napkin now, fragile and soft in my fingers, worn with time...
I wonder if I spend too much time trying to figure out how something could work rather than just letting it.
I dismantle so I can piece back together, so I can understand.
This was something I never figured out. And it's probably too late now.
There’s only one thing left in the box now as I set that last item aside.
It’s crumbled, but after the photo, I already think I know what it is.
I’d started writing a letter to Kelsey after it ended. Just spilling my mind, my heart, my guts.
I knew I couldn’t talk to her, but I had no one else to talk to.
She was my best friend. And there was no one else who knew.
Dear Kelsey,
You are my everything.
Ugh. Gross.
If only she knew what’s happened now. Not even an hour ago.
I fold the letter up with a sigh, tossing it over with the other objects I’d discarded.
I wouldn’t even know where to start if I spoke to her now.
Hey, sorry I broke up with you?
Hey, sorry I couldn’t handle being gay?
Hey. I just came out to my parents and… They’re not taking it so well?
. . .
Neither am I.
It feels like I’m a stranger in my own home.
You know what the first thing they said was?
Vietnamese people aren’t gay. Gay is an American thing. You watch too much TV.
And well, what the hell do I say to that?
Every time I try to say something, they tell me I’m being rude, that I’m talking back to them.
I tried to explain that being gay wasn’t some fad. I don’t know why they think we’re so impressionable. Especially when they believe everything they read on Facebook.
But they wouldn’t bother listening.
Did your parents say that too when you came out?
I don’t know why I never asked you that.
I told them no. I didn’t know if that was something you wanted me to share. Even if you were out to everyone else.
I just don’t think this was completely about us anyway. My coming out, I mean.
I just wanted them to hear me.
It was so tiring to keep holding that in now that I knew. And I knew that had strained our relationship too.
I’m sorry I hesitated so much with you. I didn’t mean to.
But somehow fear just consumed me and I couldn’t handle it anymore. It felt like I was lying to everyone. It felt like I was lying to myself.
I think I just needed some time to grow on my own, to learn to be okay with who I am.
I’m sorry that that meant I couldn’t be with you. I just… didn’t want to hurt you any more.
It’s been a good forty minutes now. And I think it’s nice that they’ve given me space, but…
It sort of feels like they don’t care at all.
I mean, I did rush out of there right after dinner was over.
But they all just… Went back to their routines.
I can hear the keyboard clicking in Jimmy’s room. And the TV’s on in the living room.
Do we just move on like it’d never happened?
Part of me is glad to move on that way, but… That means I’d end up back where we started.
And then... wouldn’t this all be for nothing?
. . .
Well, I guess I should leave the closet. The smell of the mothballs is slowly becoming unbearable, and I’m starting to get a headache.
I'm feeling...
Refreshed.
It feels like a weight’s been lifted off my shoulders.
And no matter what happens, it’ll be okay. I’ll be okay.
I believe in myself, and I know you believe in me too.
Terrified… honestly.
Kind of scared of my family being able to see this deep into my soul.
But being vulnerable is the first step in finding new things. And well, it’s always terrifying to stand up and show people who you are.
I’ve grown tired of living like this. Hiding in the shadows, flocking toward sources of light.
I want to be the light. I want people to feel comfortable coming to me.
I turn off the flashlight and reach up for the doorknob, taking a deep breath just to calm myself for whatever happens next.
But the door opens on its own and the light from my bedroom floods in. I’m surprised to see who’s there.
The first thing Má said had been something about my sitting on the floor.
She said she knew I hadn’t been cleaning it once she stopped checking and threatened to start again.
Just seeing her there yelling at me for something so trivial overwhelmed me.
This just felt so familiar and comfortable. Well, relatively.
And I engulfed her in a hug that she slowly gave back.
It took her a moment, but eventually she’d managed to say:
That I’m her daughter and she loves me. That she loves me now and that she would forever.
Nothing would change that.
She offered me some fruit that she and Ba had cut in the kitchen.
Durian.
And now that she’d mentioned it, I could smell it coming into my room. The door was wide open, after all, as always.
And even if there were still things to unpack here, this was a place to start.
This is still my home. And they will always be.
Kelsey said Má had called her up. Said something about needing her help with me.
Má didn’t understand me but she figured Kelsey would be a good step forward. That she’d be someone who would.
And Kelsey didn’t need any more convincing.
Two months of moping had been enough for her and it was about time she did something about it anyway. She hadn’t been planning to let me go.
I told her I wanted to be more like her.
She’d always called me her butterfly. I always joked I was a moth.
But it’s finally time to live up to her expectations. Or rather, it’s time to rise my own.
Everyone has told me what I am. I’ve never once stopped to think.
Perhaps I’m not a moth.
Perhaps I’ve been a butterfly all along.
And now, It’s finally time to become one. To spread my wings and take flight.
I am not plain. I am not ugly.
I am healthy. I am beautiful.
I am allowed to take up space. To live, to breathe, to love.
And that, I will.
